### 1. Getting started with a new Spring project
In this section you will be introduced to our 5 chapter series. We will then kick it of by setting up a vanilla Spring boot project and analyze the maven dependencies. Then we will kick it up a notch and use JHipster to generate the project for us and show the benefits of this amazing tool.

Completing this section will make it easy for you to get started on your new projects, microservices and similar

#### Youtube recording of this sesion
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tyrQFcXfCO4&t=122s

#### Introduction
We will build an application that manages products that we would like to sell online.

This project contains 3 different services

1. Product service

 Will provide us with available products we sell. We should be able to list all available products and also get a detailed product summary

2. Order service

 When our customer want's to place an order for selected products this service will be used. In this specific project we will also let the Order service work as a basket for selected products.

3. Report service

 When ever an order has been placed a report will be generated that contains the order details.

#### Setting up the maven projects

We will go to: https://start.spring.io and create a new project with the following options:
 - Maven Project
 - Spring Boot 2.6.2
 - Project Metadata
    - Group: com.deverything.devhour
    - Artifact: product-service (same for order and report-service)
    - Name: Product service
    - Package name: com.deverything.devhour.product-service
    - Packaging: Jar
    - Java: 17
 - Dependencies:
    - Lombok
    - Spring Boot DevTools
    - Spring Web
    - Spring Boot Actuator
    
Alternatively you can click here: https://start.spring.io/#!type=maven-project&language=java&platformVersion=2.6.2&packaging=jar&jvmVersion=17&groupId=com.deverything.devhour&artifactId=product-service&name=Product%20Service&description=Product%20Service%20used%20for%20DevHour%202022&packageName=com.deverything.devhour.product-service&dependencies=lombok,devtools,web,actuator

Click on Generate and unzip the downloaded projects.
Repeat the above steps for the order-service and the report-service.

#### Maven Submodules

We will now organize our services as submodules for the same project. What this means is that we will have a parent pom that we will use in our projects and it itself will point out which modules are included.
With this, if we start a build from where the parent pom is, then all projects will build as well.

So change the parent from the submodules and make sure that the parent pom has packagin of type 'pom'.

#### Running the project

To clean and install the project, place yourself in the root folder (where this file is located) and run the following command:

```bash
mvn clean install
```

This will remove any cached/previously compiled files, compile everything again, package it and install it to your local cache.

To run it, go into the folder of the service you want to start and run the following:

```bash
mvn spring-boot:run
```
You will notice that if you try to run more than one of the services at once, you won't be able to, since by default they all use port 8080 and only one of them can use it.
To change the port, locate the application.properties file inside src/main/resources and add the following line:

````
server.port=8081
````

Or any other port that is not already taken.

#### JHipster

Go to: https://jhipster.tech and install all the requirements you don't have.
Follow their quickstart and you are off!

The code included here is generated by their tool and we used the default jdl model that is there when you open JDL Studio.

##### #maven, #spring-boot, #jhipster, #microservices
